README.md, before:

# Calibre Web UI — Home Assistant Add-on

[![Buy Me A Coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/prlz77)

![Calibre Web UI](screenshots/ui.png)

Calibre Web UI is a lightweight Home Assistant add-on designed to bridge the gap between Calibre's powerful command-line tools and your local network devices. It provides a clean, responsive web interface that allows you to manage your book library, convert formats on the fly, and download books directly to your devices—including a specialized offline experience for Kindle's experimental browser.

Whether you're looking to centralize your ebook collection on your Home Assistant instance or need a simple way to beam books to your Kindle without a USB cable, this add-on provides a seamless, resource-efficient solution.

## Features

- **Autosync** — Automatically sync your books at a configurable interval
- **Directory Sync** — Bulk add books from a local directory
- **Book Library** — Browse your Calibre library from any device on your LAN
- **Upload Books** — Add EPUB, MOBI, PDF, and other e-book formats via the web UI
- **Format Conversion** — Convert books between EPUB, MOBI, AZW3, and PDF using Calibre's `ebook-convert`
- **Download Books** — Download books directly from the library to your device
- **Delete Books** — Remove books from your library
- **Kindle LAN Access** — Access your library from a Kindle's web browser over your local network
- **Offline UI** — All CSS/fonts are bundled locally; no internet required

## Installation

1. Add this repository to your Home Assistant instance:
   - Go to **Settings → Add-ons → Add-on Store → ⋮ → Repositories**
   - Add: `https://github.com/prlz77/ha-calibre`
2. Find **Calibre Web UI** in the add-on store and click **Install**
3. Configure the add-on (see below) and click **Start**
4. Open the Web UI via the **Ingress** panel or navigate to `http://<your-ha-ip>:8080`

## Configuration

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `library_path` | `/share/calibre` | Path to the Calibre library on the HA host |
| `sync_dir` | (empty) | Optional path to a folder to sync books from |
| `sync_interval` | `0` (disabled) | Periodic sync interval in minutes |
| `log_level` | `info` | Logging verbosity: `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error` |

## Accessing from Kindle

1. Connect your Kindle to the same Wi-Fi network as your Home Assistant
2. Open the Kindle's **Experimental Browser**
3. Navigate to `http://<your-ha-ip>:8080`
4. Browse and download books directly to your Kindle

## Development

```bash
cd calibre_web_ui
docker build -t calibre-web-ui .
docker run -p 8080:8080 -v /path/to/your/library:/share/calibre calibre-web-ui
```

## Support

If you find this add-on useful and want to support its development, feel free to buy me a coffee! Any support is greatly appreciated. ☕️

[![Buy Me A Coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/prlz77)

Commit message:

Fix Kindle browser download support for .azw3 files

README.md, after:

# Calibre Web UI — Home Assistant Add-on

[![Buy Me A Coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/prlz77)

![Calibre Web UI](screenshots/ui.png)

Calibre Web UI is a lightweight Home Assistant add-on designed to bridge the gap between Calibre's powerful command-line tools and your local network devices. It provides a clean, responsive web interface that allows you to manage your book library, convert formats on the fly, and download books directly to your devices—including a specialized offline experience for Kindle's experimental browser.

Whether you're looking to centralize your ebook collection on your Home Assistant instance or need a simple way to beam books to your Kindle without a USB cable, this add-on provides a seamless, resource-efficient solution.

## Features

- **Autosync** — Automatically sync your books at a configurable interval
- **Directory Sync** — Bulk add books from a local directory
- **Book Library** — Browse your Calibre library from any device on your LAN
- **Upload Books** — Add EPUB, MOBI, PDF, and other e-book formats via the web UI
- **Format Conversion** — Convert books between EPUB, MOBI, AZW3, and PDF using Calibre's `ebook-convert`
- **Download Books** — Download books directly from the library to your device
- **Delete Books** — Remove books from your library
- **Kindle LAN Access** — Access your library from a Kindle's web browser over your local network
- **Offline UI** — All CSS/fonts are bundled locally; no internet required

## Installation

1. Add this repository to your Home Assistant instance:
   - Go to **Settings → Add-ons → Add-on Store → ⋮ → Repositories**
   - Add: `https://github.com/prlz77/ha-calibre`
2. Find **Calibre Web UI** in the add-on store and click **Install**
3. Configure the add-on (see below) and click **Start**
4. Open the Web UI via the **Ingress** panel or navigate to `http://<your-ha-ip>:8080`

## Configuration

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `library_path` | `/share/calibre` | Path to the Calibre library on the HA host |
| `sync_dir` | (empty) | Optional path to a folder to sync books from |
| `sync_interval` | `0` (disabled) | Periodic sync interval in minutes |
| `log_level` | `info` | Logging verbosity: `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error` |

## Accessing from Kindle

1. Connect your Kindle to the same Wi-Fi network as your Home Assistant
2. Open the Kindle's **Experimental Browser**
3. Navigate to `http://<your-ha-ip>:8080`
4. Browse and download books directly to your Kindle

> [!TIP]
> **AZW3 Support:** While Kindles natively support AZW3, their web browser is often restricted to downloading `.mobi` or `.azw` extensions. This add-on automatically renames `.azw3` files to `.azw` during download when it detects a Kindle browser to bypass this restriction.

## Development

```bash
cd calibre_web_ui
docker build -t calibre-web-ui .
docker run -p 8080:8080 -v /path/to/your/library:/share/calibre calibre-web-ui
```

## Support

If you find this add-on useful and want to support its development, feel free to buy me a coffee! Any support is greatly appreciated. ☕️

[![Buy Me A Coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/prlz77)
